
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Policy :  Information Technology Acceptable Use 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 (i) Policy Statement
"It is the Policy of Seneca College that all members of the Seneca Community are
responsible for obeying Provincial and Federal laws/regulations and College
Policy concerning the use of information technology services, facilities and
equipment. The College's Information Technology resources remain the sole
property of Seneca College. Seneca College grants students, clients and
employees the privilege to use its information technology services, facilities
and equipment to further learning, teaching and working.

Further, any materials which may violate a person's right to work and study in
an environment free from discrimination/ harassment are not to be stored,
displayed, transmitted or otherwise linked to Seneca College information
technology services, facilities and equipment.

However, Seneca College recognizes the individual right to access information.
As a user of the College information technology services, facilities and
equipment, you are responsible for abiding by the Information Technology
Acceptable Use Policy and the Protocol for Dealing with Information Technology
Abuse."

 (ii) Prevention, Education and Enforcement
Seneca College is committed to preventing behaviour which results in the 
inappropriate use of the College's Information Technology Services and 
Facilities. The College is responsible for communicating to all employees, 
students, clients, the public, and/or contractors that the inappropriate use of 
the College's IT services, facilities and equipment is prohibited. This includes
ongoing proactive education/prevention campaigns such as staff and student 
training, regular communication of the ITAUP through internal media, and the 
articulation of the ITAUP into the ICA 001 curriculum. The College maintains its
responsibility for communicating, monitoring, implementing and enforcing, where 
necessary, all aspects of the ITAUP.

Official College E-Mail is available to all employees and students. Faculty, 
staff and students are reminded that College correspondence should only be 
disseminated electronically through official College-provided e-mail. Alternate 
e-mail addresses, such as Yahoo mail or Hotmail mail, are not authenticable 
through Seneca.

 (iii) Policy Regulations and Responsibilities
Seneca College Provides Information Technology services, facilities and 
equipment to meet your learning, teaching or working needs.

However, it is a violation of College Policy to:

1. enter, without authorization, into equipment, facilities, networks or 
   accounts to use, read, transfer or change the contents, or for any other 
   purpose; 
2. use another individual's information technology account; 
3. grant another individual access to your information technology account; 
4. use any College information technology facilities to interfere with the work
   of other students, faculty members or college officials; 
5. use information technology facilities to send obscene, abusive, derogatory or
   harassing messages; 
6. display, transmit, distribute or make available information that expresses or
   implies discrimination or an intention to discriminate; 
7. use information technology facilities to interfere with the normal operation
   of College information technology systems and connecting networks; this list
   would include such things as flooding the network with messages or sending 
   chain letters or pyramid solicitations. Unauthorized use of information 
   technology facilities and accounts and removing or altering data is a 
   criminal offense in Canada; 
8. use Seneca College's computer facilities for profit or commercial gain; 
9. create and/or use world-wide web information pages or links to point to 
   offending materials that do not comply with the Ontario Human Rights Code or 
  /the Criminal Code of Canada; 
10.use Seneca College's computer facilities for any purpose that could be seen 
   as a violation of the Criminal Code of Canada. 

 (iv) Consequences of Policy Violations
Employees, students and clients are responsible for reporting all real, or 
perceived infractions of the Information Technology Acceptable Use Policy to the
Information Technology Security Officer (CSO). The CSO can be reached 
electronically at cso@senecac.on.ca. Documented and substantiated complaints 
shall be handled through the Protocol for Dealing with Information Technology 
Abuse.

Overall, the Information Technology Acceptable Use Policy asks that you obey the
law and be considerate of others' needs.

Failure to adhere to the Information Technology Acceptable Use Policy could 
result in suspension of usage privileges or other discipline as appropriate.

When there is a suspected violation of the Policy, the College has the authority
to conduct appropriate search and seizure procedures of all College owned and 
operated Information Technology services, facilities and equipment. The College 
also reserves the right to review and/or restrict services and programs that are
deemed potential violations of College Policy.

ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF THE ABOVE POLICY ARE HANDLED BY THE RESOLUTION, EQUITY AND
DIVERSITY CENTRE (REDC), IN CONJUNCTION WITH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND 
TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT THE CSO at cso@senecac.on.ca, the REDC at 
Human.Rights@senecac.on.ca, or visit our Website at www.senecac.on.ca/hr/redc

  

   

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Protocol : Information Technology Acceptable Use 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  All employees, students and clients are expected to abide by the Information 
Technology Acceptable Use Policy and accompanying Protocols. All employees and 
students are also expected to comply with the directions given to them by staff 
when they are performing their regular or delegated duties regarding this Policy.

 (i) Preamble
Seneca College has developed standards of behaviour when using information 
technology services, facilities and equipment. All members of the Seneca 
Community are responsible for obeying the law and College policy with regards 
to the use of information technology services, facilities and equipment. 
Legislation and College policy which affects the use of information technology 
services, facilities and equipment include, but are not limited to:

 - the Ontario Human Rights Code 
 - the Criminal Code of Canada 
 - Internet Service Provider Acceptable Use Policy 
 - Seneca's Information Technology Acceptable Use Policy 
 - Seneca's Discrimination & Harassment Policy 
 - Seneca's Student Rights and Responsibilities Policy 
 - Seneca's Personal Safety/Security Threats Policy 

It is the policy of Seneca College that any materials which may violate a 
person's right to work and study in an environment free from 
discrimination/harassment are not to be stored, displayed, transmitted or 
otherwise linked to Seneca College information technology services, facilities 
and/or equipment. However, Seneca College recognizes the individual right of 
access to information. As such, it is not considered an offense to seek out 
information, that may be considered offensive or sexually explicit, providing 
it is done for specific academic purposes.

This Policy follows the College's Discrimination and Harassment Policy and as 
such is intended to foster a balance between academic freedom and the freedom 
from Discrimination and/or Harassment. The College strives for a learning, 
teaching and work environment which promotes inclusion, understanding and 
respect for all students and employees. It is the College's objective to ensure 
that curriculum, teaching and promotional materials reflect our college 
community.

Where teaching and/or promotional materials are being developed and/or utilized,
every effort shall be made to portray and acknowledge the diversity of Canadian 
society. Materials that may contain discriminatory bias and stereotypes must be 
used exclusively for the purpose of ensuring that members of the College 
community become open-minded, discerning, critical and analytical thinkers, 
aware of historical and current values, attitudes and behaviours.

 (ii) Process
Seneca College has a process in place for filing individual complaints of 
Discrimination and/or Harassment. In addition, where the College does not 
receive an individual complaint but is aware of activity which violates the law 
or College policy and impairs the objectives of the College, a College complaint 
will be initiated. In these instances, the College is obliged to take action.

Violations of the Information Technology Acceptable Use Policy will be processed 
using the following procedures.

A. Reporting of Alleged Violations

1) Employees, students and clients are responsible for reporting all believed to 
be or perceived infractions of the Information Technology Acceptable Use Policy 
to the CSO or the REDC. The CSO can be reached electronically at 
cso@senecac.on.ca

2) Reports can be made to a local technician or administrator who is then 
responsible to report to the CSO.

B. Local Technician/Administrator Responsibilities - Immediate Response

1) The Local Technician/Administrator is responsible for ensuring that login 
logs, login failures and usage logs are preserved wherever possible.

2) All non-required services and daemons should be turned off (i.e., mail 
turned off on servers where it is not required for learning or teaching purposes).

3) Warnings may be issued for minor infractions of the Information Technology 
Acceptable Use Policy or local policies. Discretion must be used when issuing a 
warning. A sample wording has been developed and should be used. All warnings 
will be copied to the REDC and the CSO for central record keeping.

4) No actions will be taken resulting in severe discipline for an infraction 
without a proper investigation and the involvement of the Resolution, Equity and 
Diversity Centre unless notification to the individual and/or group would cause 
the College to violate specific legal obligations with regards to the dignity, 
safety or security of its constituent(s).

C. Security Officer - Technical Investigation

1) Upon receipt of a report, the CSO or College designate will conduct a 
preliminary investigation to collect information about the report and determine 
if the incident could possibly be a breach of any applicable College policy, 
provincial code or federal law.

2) Where the CSO and/or College designate has sufficient information that the 
incident could be a breach, he/she will report it immediately to the REDC. The 
College may also assign the responsibility of collecting pre-investigation 
material to a local technician.

3) If the material in question resides on College computer equipment, facilities 
or networks (for example a web page on Seneca's server), the material may be 
removed pending an investigation. If the incident involves abuse of e-mail or 
other information technology activities, account privileges for the alleged 
offender may be suspended pending an investigation. This decision will be made 
by either the CSO or REDC, depending upon circumstances.

D. Resolution, Equity and Diversity Centre Responsibilities - Formal 
Investigation and Resolution

1) Upon receipt of the CSO's report, REDC will conduct an investigation which 
will include, but is not limited to, the following: review of the CSO's report, 
inspection of any materials or evidence presented, and interviews with any 
parties who were involved or may have knowledge of the incident.

2) Where the incident breaches the College's Policy on Discrimination and 
Harassment or the Ontario Human Rights Code, REDC will initiate proceedings 
under the College's Procedures on Discrimination and Harassment.

3) Where the incident breaches the Criminal Code of Canada or Provincial 
laws/regulations, the REDC will notify the appropriate Police Force.

4) Where the incident breaches the Information Technology Acceptable Use Policy, 
REDC will discuss the investigative findings with the CSO and appropriate 
disciplinary action will be initiated.

 (iii) Disciplinary Action
Where incidents are found to be in violation of College policy, the College will 
exercise its rights to take appropriate disciplinary action, including, but not 
limited to, verbal/written warnings, rescinding of e-mail or Internet accounts, 
removal of materials from College computer equipment facilities and networks, 
disciplinary directives, behavioural contracts, suspension and/or 
expulsion/dismissal from the College. In addition to internal College sanctions 
that can impact on a student's academic performance or employee's employment, 
the College will cooperate with all local, national and international law 
agencies whenever necessary. The College will not be responsible for sanctions 
taken by these agencies for violations of the College's ITAUP that are against 
local and international laws and/or criminal codes.

Updated January 2007

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Resolution, Equity and Diversity Centre web site: www.senecac.on.ca/hr/redc
Maintained by: The Resolution, Equity and Diversity Centre with support from ITT Services  

Please refer to http://www.senecac.on.ca/policies/itau.html for the latest and 
up to date copy of the Information Technology Acceptable Use.

